welcome to data structures if you're
watching this you're probably somebody
enrolled with the actual physical class
at Berkeley CS 61 B but if you're just
some random person from the internet
you're welcome to all the material will
be here available on the web for you to
learn everything's free
so hop in so what is this class well
this is a second semester class as most
of you it Berkeley No
and it is to me one of the most
important classes I'm a little biased
because this is my baby in the class I
spent the most time developing and
thinking about but this is the class
where you go from being a basic
programmer knowing how to kind of build
stuff and really working your way
towards independence it's kind of like
bootcamp this is the class where when
you leave it I want you to be able to
walk in to say Google or Airbnb do an
internship blow people's minds do well
this is the class or and you're done I
want you to think okay there's some
thing I want to achieve maybe I want to
learn to build an Android app to I don't
know to connect children and countries
so they can compare Pokemon or whatever
whatever it may be that you want to
build this is the class where I want you
to get the independence and the skills
necessary to go out there and do
anything else that you want to do the
great unlocking of all things out there
ok so how are we gonna do that what is
what is the the framework that this
going to be
well this class is fundamentally about
efficiency ok and it'll connect us to
this notion of independence as we'll see
in a moment so first the first way in
which we might consider efficiency is in
our programs themselves how long does it
take the computer to run the program how
much memory does the program use and to
understand that we're gonna study a
certain set of algorithms that are
really good ways of solving certain
problems and data structures ways of
keeping our information organized so it
could be rapidly retrieved and modified
and so forth so that'll be an important
goal but arguably more important is
learning to be yourself a more efficient
programmer to spend less time to build
the same complexity of program and so to
do that we're going to along the way
we're gonna learn to design build test
and debug large programs over a thousand
lines or so and what that's going to do
is give you an opportunity to approach a
specific problem and really beat your
head against the wall a little and think
about all the different trade-offs that
might go into
you might design a program so previous
classes you've probably mostly been
given a set of functions you fill in
that will not be the case for much of
this class
along the way we'll also learn to use
the set of programming tools we're gonna
use a bunch of real world tools
principally get IntelliJ and JUnit and
we're gonna learn Java as we go now Java
is not the goal of the class or this is
not a Java programming class we just
needed that language which is popular
and is used for large-scale programs and
it is both of those things but it could
have been other languages and we're not
really gonna focus on Java so much so
we'll have to at the beginning just to
get up to speed so this class assumes
you already have a fairly solid
programming foundation that you know
what object-oriented programming is and
you've done a class definition that you
know recursion that you've dealt with
lists and trees and we're gonna build
from there so why is it that if we're
going to try and learn to be independent
programmers why specifically are we
focusing on data structures and
algorithms why isn't this a an android
app development class or a robotics
class well for me data structures and
algorithms are particularly interesting
and very general class of problems that
have all kinds of neat stuff to them so
one of them of course is that our daily
life is only possible because of really
advanced algorithms and data structures
so of course if we open up let's see
I'll do another Google tab here we know
autocomplete and we know that it seems
to work well but it's it happens so
seamlessly we don't even think about it
so it might do something like how does
auto-complete work okay and you'll
notice that as I'm typing like what are
snails good for whatever is even trying
to do that is a good question let's see
what are they trying to do well you can
read later I bet there's some good stuff
in there anyway we can see that s for
typing that the Google search box here
it responds instantly like how is auto
yeah
or whatever it may be just happen
instantly as soon as I press a button
boom and that is enabled only because
they're using the right data structures
and algorithms and in fact it's very
tail into this course we'll talk about
this
cific data structures used to support
this another big thing is that
algorithms and data structures are
really driving what's changing in our
lives right now so here is a Google
self-driving car prototype so Google
uber other companies are really pushing
hard on and Tesla of course are really
pushing hard on building cars that drive
themselves and that's gonna have just
insane implications like millions of
jobs in the United States are gonna
disappear in the near term it's
something like a million or so people a
year are killed in car accidents around
the world and so we're gonna see just
tremendous upheaval as these become
state-of-the-art and it's the algorithms
and the data structures used to store
the information that has this car is
learning they allow this to come to
happen to be able to make these big
changes in our lives another of course
as well data structures it turns out
having a good handle on them is perhaps
the most important thing for being a
good programmer so the creator of Linux
leaners Torvalds says the difference
between a bad program and a good one is
whether the programmer considers code or
data structures more important bad
programmers worry about the code you
know what does it look like what kind of
you know do you use tabs or spaces or
something like that good programmers
worry about data structures and their
relationships and you'll see this when
we get the project - if you make the
right choices about the data structures
you need to implement this database
system then you'll have a much easier
time but if you make bad calls about the
class hierarchy or about how you're
storing information your life will be
much more difficult and we'll see that
again in great detail in a few weeks
another reason that this is a fun topic
is just for intellectual stimulation
there's a lot of neat little math
problems I don't you ever tried to draw
this house so the goal is put down your
pencil in a corner and then try and draw
the house of that picking up your pencil
so maybe I go they're there they're
there they're there
oh I missed a line I mean you couldn't
tell cuz you couldn't see me drawing but
try it out so turns out it is possible
to draw this house without picking up
your pencil however it is not possible
to cross these seven bridges in this
town without having to basically hop you
can't do the equivalent of drawing to
the house over here and so there it
turns out you might ask yourself why is
that just from a mathematical
perspective I'm just curious why can you
draw this house why
can you not draw this is there some
simple rule it turns out there is and
we'll talk a little bit about graph
theory later in this class and so in if
that's an aspect of computer science you
find interesting
that is theory this is a class you'll
get a little taste of theory as well
another big reason we're curious about
algorithm data structures is that if we
can develop so it's important in the
modern scientific world to be able to
program it's important to be able to
know what algorithms are out there or
what appropriate data structures you
need to write simulations because that's
just that's the direction science is
come on it's a one interesting example
here on the left this is a video of
starlings flying around their type of
bird and this is a simulation on the
right showing they're able to
recapitulate the essential behavior of
this flock and so you can do fun things
where you start sending out say there's
a hawk chasing them around here I guess
you can't quite see the hawk but because
of the fact that we write a simple model
that's able to demonstrate the same
behavior it implies that we knows
something important potentially about
how these birds have behaved this is
also used in other areas like say
protein folding and galaxy formation all
across the board simulation is really
important not just in terms of
understanding and proving to yourself do
you know how the universe works but you
can imagine also maybe this algorithm
the bird is using could actually be
useful for some real-world application
say I don't know swarming flying drones
or something another nice thing about
algorithms and data structures is that
with the really good knowledge of them
even if you're or say in for this only
for the aesthetics only for art now
there's some neat things you can do so
here's some realistic fluid simulations
using some clever fluid
[Applause]
[Music]
another particularly beautiful thing Oh
before I get there so for my students at
Berkeley I just want to throw out there
that if you like watching fluids flow
like those simulations nature's best
fluid flow show the ocean you may not
realize it living in the Bay Area that
waves get really really big so on
January 21st there will be some 35 foot
wave so maybe go to the beach and check
those out go back to computer science
another rather beautiful thing here is
the computers have told us that humans
are completely wrong that is we cannot
compete so it's interesting about the
way that this go computer played as it
played unlike a human it did weird stuff
and it still managed to win and so the
raining go champion said I would go as
far as to say not a single human has
touched the edge of the truth of go so
leave it to a go player to say something
really poignant beautiful you know
poetry just from your profession good
job
no not everybody's impressed there was a
guy in the internet comments section who
said the rules of go are quite simple
and the rule and the resources that you
have out there for learning it are
gigantic and no one was surprised except
for poorly educated losers so I don't
know internet comment sections they
disagree but I still think it's
beautiful even if this guy doesn't and
lastly another big reason that we might
study algorithms from data structures is
well it sure seems like a popular thing
for people my age to be doing so at
Berkeley most of the students here you
know we're largely 18 to 21 not
everybody it seems like everybody else
you know people look like us we're all
doing this thing it must be important
this year the 61 B total enrollment for
data structures it's gonna be were
estimating just shy of 2,000 students we
currently have 1,350 enrolled I
anticipate what 1250 a week for so this
is the entire history of 61 P
enrollment and you could see here this
is the dot-com boom and then the crash
that followed
now even the dot-com boom which was a
big deal at the time
we're completely annihilating the
enrollments of those at that time period
and in fact if we think of the post boom
period the number of students currently
enrolled this semester spring 2017 is
1,250 which is the equivalent of
everybody in the years 2004 through 2007
combined so that's pretty amazing so
there's something in the water you guys
are going nuts for computer science and
data structures in particular so hey
social proof so that's a story that's
why I like algorithms and data
structures and I think this class I hope
you'll find is just a really good
introduction to being independent being
able to build all those beautiful things
from self-driving cars up to go flying
robots
there's plenty more you'll need to learn
especially if you're doing AI you'll
have to learn lots and lots about
state-of-the-art algorithms for those
specific areas later but this here is
the foundation of Independence so I
would ask you who you were but you're
watching a video so you can maybe talk
to the screen to yourself and explain
who you are and pretend the name list
I'll pretend like I'm listening okay
good good to meet you
sorry I couldn't actually meet you and
be super cool I really like to be able
to divide my consciousness and the like
I don't know thousands or hundreds of
thousands of copies and talk to
everybody sadly can't do it so a little
bit about us so this semester the spring
17 staff if you are an enrolled student
there's me I'm Josh odd by the way I'm a
teaching professor here at Berkeley I
have an office in the building you can
email me and this is my fourth time
teaching this class second time doing
this version of the class and here all
the teaching assistants in addition to
all these teaching assistants so I won't
name a name because there's so many we
also have a bunch of tutors who will be
there to help people out who need a
little extra help we'll talk more about
that later in the semester and then we
have a bunch of lab assistants aka
academic interns which number around 140
who are volunteers so thank you none of
them are here so can't me
because I'm just at my house but that's
that
now I mentioned by the way in case
you're curious you can look at I did
since there's so many of them I was
curious what is the letter distribution
of the names here versus English I don't
talk about it here in this video but hey
kind of fun alright for me it was so
that said we're gonna talk soon about
the way that you learn and what in the
course you can use to gain additional
knowledge and I like this little example
because I as somebody who grew up when I
was a kid I hadn't adults always telling
me like you're super good at math like
or whatever and I didn't really
understand that practice makes you get
good at things and in fact the thing
that taught me that this is embarrassing
to admit is dance dance revolution so
those who are not familiar dancing
[Music]
a job
that was actually really you know what
[Music]
so right now you may be but ultimately I
want to get in here and I think that
after you finish all computer science
program even if you're somebody who did
this point it's not it could be really
intimidating to be in a room full of
people who have been programming you
know for a decade you know you're 18 and
they've been doing it since they're
eight to feel like could I ever possibly
compete but really you can now it is of
course true of the people with more
background and people who have learned
to think in a certain way they're gonna
learn more quickly than you so but the
important point here is that I really
think that the ceiling that if you had
you know a year to really spend on this
class and especially if you're somebody
out there on the internet if you're in
the middle of nowhere I mean great glad
you're here I think you can really get
super good at this even if you feel like
you're you're somebody who hasn't been a
natural at this
right being a natural whatever that may
mean sure it helps you learn faster but
the point is that with practice so how
do you learn well you'll learn a little
bit watching those videos now especially
if you're somebody who's just watching
the videos online watching me talk as
maybe vaguely entertaining and you'll
get an introduction to the new material
but this is only a small minority of the
manner in which learning occurs same
deal with reading like just sitting
there and reading the online text you'll
get stuff out of it but really where
stuff happens is when you yourself are
actually programming learning is seeing
a problem figuring out a way to approach
it hitting a brick wall often and then
finding away over that brick wall so in
this class doing the labs the homeworks
and experimenting alone will give you a
chance to learn all the basics a Java
syntax learned a little bit about
algorithms and data structures and and
get a chance to learn the tools for this
class if you are a Berkeley student you
will also have discussion section where
you'll get a chance to practice with the
concepts and argue about approaches to
problems and then one of these big
projects which are going to be similar
to the labs and homeworks they're gonna
be programming oriented but we're gonna
have a design component and we're
typically going to have these big
systems building challenges these will
also involve writing of tests whereas
for labs and homeworks will typically
give you all of those this is where
you're gonna learn lots of stuff
so we'll talk about course logistics in
this next little segment but I just want
to say this class it is really truly
about making you into hopefully a great
programmer and that I believe that even
if you're somebody who is maybe say I
don't know even a C student in your
previous programming course if you maybe
not this semester maybe you don't have
enough time to catch up but really if
you are sentient and you enjoy this and
you are even able to get the you were
even able to digest the basics of
programming you can actually get really
good at this but it may take a lot of
practice okay so that said we'll move on
to course logistics next and see in that
video